GIT NOTES (IMPORTANT)

LECTURE 1//

HTML- SKELETON, DESCRIPTION (WHAT OF WEBPAGE)

CSS - APPEARENACE,STYLING,FORMATTING

      CSS-> CASCADING STYLE SHEETS


 It contains properties of various elements in WEBPAGE



 SELECTORS IN CSS:
         it is use to select an element to which we need to apply any APPEARENACE settings

         Note:- we can select one, many element at a time using various type of selectors.


    1) Simple Selectors:-
         a) element selectors
         b) class selectors 
         c) id selectors
    2) Pseudo Selector
    
    3) Multiple Selector      


# Simple selectors
     
     a) element Selector:- its use to select particular tag.
               its also called tag Selector

               eg p{
                  property:value;
               }
               every p tag in html tag will apply this property

       File to be ref:-  index1.html and Style1.css     

    But lets say i have 4 tables and i want two taables with border 4px and 2 tables with 2px
    in such case we need to use class Selector

    b) Class selectors
         
           .className{
               property:value;
           }
    c) ID Selector:
          uique id to target particular element individually


          #idName{
            property:value;
          }

          id is unique

#Pseudo SELECTORS:
     A CSS pseudo-class is a keyword added to a selector that specifies a special state of the selected elements). 
     For example, :hover can be used to change a button's color when the user's pointer hovers over it.

     to implelment special state of element.


     selector: pseudoclass
     {

     }


 #Multiple SELECTORS
 grouping selector

 table tr td{
    border: 1px solid
 }

 table tr td these are grouped.



 OTHER SELECTORS are aslo there like 
     UINVERSAL
     NESTED
     ATTRIBUTE etc.




3 WAYS TO ADD STYLING 



1)Inline
        <p style="color:red">This is para<p>

2)Internal

         in head tag we can write all css code in styel tag
         <style>
            CSS -code
         </style>   


3)External
        we use eternal css file to write all code and then link this file to html using
        link tag in head tag.
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="path of css file">



SPECIFICTY:-


     which propetry will override other is decided by specififcity

       Order of dominance:-

       tag < class < id < Inline CSS


       but if use !important the that will be picked and specififcity will die 

       but !important is bad practice.




BOX MODEL IN CSS

The box model is the basic building block of CSS.
According to the box model concept, every element on a page is a rectangular box and may have width, height, padding, borders, and margins.


REF:-  index2.html and Style2.css



COLORS In css
    
      a) Hexadecimal COLORS
           #rrggbb
           eg white- #ffffff
      b) rgb COLORS
        
        
           eg (0,0,255)  :blue
           eg (0,255,0)  :green

      c) Predefined Colours
          There are around 140 predefined Colours in CSS
    
box-sizing :- border-box then content  size will reduce.



FONTS:-Font-family


UNITS IN CSS


A) Absoulte Units
css-pixel and hardware pixel are two different things

in css 1 pixel is 1/96 of inch.


smallest unit of display.
its fixed ..if any elemet is given fixed units. it will look same size device to device


B) Percentage unit.


     dimenions respect to parents dimestions
C) Relative units to Font Size;
   relative to parent element font size.
   a)em psrent tag.
        
   b)rem:- realtive to root element( root is html)




D) Relative to ViwPort(entire scrren)

     vw-view width :-  1/100 of width of viewport
     vh- view height:- 1/100 of height of viewport




LECTURE 2//


file refer :- index3.html and Style3.html
CSS GRADIENT:- Shifting Colourr
   types:- linear GRADIENT, radial gradient, conic gradient


a)LINEAR GRADIENT:- down /left/up/right/diagonally
   By Default linear gradient is top to bottom

b) radial gradient:- from any center of circle

c) conicall:-  like top of cone 


CSS-SHADOW EFFECTS

a) text shadow   text-shadow:( horizantal distance)(vertical)(blur) (color)

b) box shadow     box-shadow: 10 px 10 px 10px(blur)
                  by default shadow color is of text Colourr
                  third args can be used as blur affect
                  
                  Multiple shadows can also be given

                  if negative values is given  then direction of shadows can be changed

                  spread-radius attribte:- its 4th value in box-shadow.Positive values will cause the shadow to expand and grow bigger, negative values will cause the shadow to shrink. If not specified, it will be 0 (the shadow will be the same size as the element).



 CSS dimenions:


width 


height

min-height:- if content fits in this then well and good else if its getting out then it div size will grow.

min-width:-

max-width:

max-height: content aftr this height will 

     we can handle this overflow using overflow attributes.

similar for max and min width



overflow:-  visible( always visible)
            hidden (extra content hidden)
            scroll( scrolling)
            auto (again scorll aur visisble mix depending on content size)



overflow is shorthand propetry of overflow-x and overflow-y



CSS TRANSFORMS

CSS transforms allow you to move, rotate, scale, and skew elements.
• With transform property you can use following methodsL=
• translate
• rotated
• scaleX
. scaleY
. scaled 
. skewx 
. skewY
. skew
. matrix

transform: translate



//LECTURE 3 (CSS)


File:- 

CSS Position property

1) Staticz:-Tags apperar in normal in order (default )



1. static: Default one.
2. relative : Same as static. But lets you add top, right, bottom, left. Makes it move relative to it's normal position
3. absolute: Removes from the flow and positions absolute wrt to the parent. Parent has to be relative or absolute for top, right, bottom, left to work. Else it considers the main html element as the  parent .
4. fixed : Fixed to a place. Doesn't give two shits about the parent. Always considers html element as the parent. Stays there when scrolled.
5. sticky : Relative ( when normal) + fixed ( when scrolled). The values for top, right, bottom, left become active when scrolled


HW:- Position text in all corners && centre of an image
file hw.html,hw.css in smallProjects

 
CSS 3D transform;

file index5.html and style5.css



// LECTURE 4 

CSS FLEX BOX MODEL

Layout Model:-

The first step is to set display: flex on a "container" element. The "children" to the flex container become flex items.
A set of properties can be applied to flex containers, and have an effect to all the items as a whole, and a different set of properties can be applied to flex items and have their effect on the targeted items. Flex items can in turn also be flex containers for the elements it contains, making it easy to create complex layouts.

FILE index6.html and Style 6.html


Flex container properties

1) FLEX DIRECTIon ( row,col,row rev,col rev)

2) Flex Wrap( warp,nowrap,wrap reverse)





we can keep width intact we use flex-wrap:wrap; jab tak possible handle
also there is no warp and warap reverse


3) Flex-flow (shorthand property):- direction+ wrap


4) justify-content:- main axis ke upar item align larta hai.

    justify-content: flex-start;
    justify-content: flex-end;
    justify-content: center;
    justify-content: space-around;
    justify-content: space-evenly;
    justify-content: space-between;


5) align-item:- cross axis ke upar hoti hai
    align-items: flex-start;
    align-items: flex-start;
    align-items: flex-end;
    align-items: center ;
     align-items: stretch; 
     align-items:baseline; 

    gap:10px is used to give gap betwwen    


    if oth align item and justfy content   made as center then item will be center of div. 





6) Align Content:- two have spacing between rows align-comtent is used.
     align-content:- flex start  //all rows at start.
     align-content:- flex-end // all rows at end
     align-content:- center // all rows at center
     align-content;- space between // rows have space between
      similarly space-evenly ,space around.





FLEX item property (child of flex)


1) Order:-   changes order of child of flex

      order:1;


2)flex-grow:0(default); take width to complete space.


3)flex-shrink:when i squeeze then window shrinking sppeed increase;
      flex-shrink: value<number>


4) Flex-basis;- used to give width to childs 
         flex-basis;100px; 
         it is similar to width.

         but in width if content is over flown then content will ne hidden
         amd if i use flex-basis then flex child will grow accoring to content.

         if %is given one item will take   50% of width


5) flex is short hand to apply above properties

6) Align-self:- (margin left,margin right,margin top, marign)-> margin shorthand property
                 applying properties to only one child.


       


      









               





